In this lecture, we are going to learn how can you call an API URL with Linux?
Let's get started.
So the basic networking commands in Linux is ping as a ping sends some packets to an IP or a domain
and tells you whether it's working or not.
So you can ping google.com and you could see it's just sending 32 bytes of packets and checking if it
is receiving any reply and then it gives you a ping statistics.
But the more real world use case is.
Let's say you have an API endpoint and you want to call the API endpoint.
So to do that, you use the curl command call stands for client URL.
So you will run call and then the URL of the API.
In this case, this is the URL of the API and it is going to give a status code to 100 is the okay status
code and also the output content.
Now instead of just directly calling curl, you can run curl using dash v or var both option.
And this is going to give you a little bit more information and this is pretty straightforward.
That's why it's not showing much information.
But if there was something wrong with the network, then it is going to show a little bit more information
with the verbals.
So whenever you do a call and then a URL by default, it is a get call.
But what if you're trying to call the post method of the API URL and with the post method you want to
pass some input data.
So generally you use Postman for this, right?
So you have the URL on the top and in the body you are passing this JSON input.
So this API you specify the operations operation is echo and whatever you pass in the payload, it simply
returns it.
So we are passing this payload, some key one colon, some one some key to colon, some value to and
the API returns the same payload, some key one, some value one, some key to some value too.
And also the JSON, you have to put the content type as application's last JSON.
So how does it look like with the cattle command?
So the cow command four post looks like this Karl dash x and then you have to put the method.
Not that you did not need this forget method because that's what the default method is.
As we put Karl X post and then dash D as in data and here you can just passed the JSON within double
code, but the best way to do that is save the JSON in a file.
So I name the file request dot json.
So you will give does DX add the red name of the file?
You also have to pass this field in the header dash h as in header content, dash type colon application
slash JSON and then your URL.
And as you could see in the request JSON, I'm passing the payload as name cloud with reg location USA
and it is returning simply the same payload.
All right, folks, that's how you call an API endpoint for different methods.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next lecture.